README.md, before:

# GitCentOS:

## Installing the CentOS:

1. Install Oracle Virtual Box
2. Download CentOS 8 iso (image) file
3. Install CentOS in the Oracle Virtual Box.

## Working with Git in CentOS:
 **Note:** All the installations must be done from the root user

1. Update yum using the command ---------------------------> **yum update**
2. Install Development tools using the command ------------> **sudo yum groupinstall "Development Tools"**
3. Install Git using the command --------------------------> **yum git install**
4. Update Git using the command ---------------------------> **yum git update**
5. To find Git Version using the command ------------------> **git --version**
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42949313/87632315-c1954700-c6fe-11ea-808e-d2a6e2e33b1f.png)
6. Configure Git using the command ------------------------> **git config –-global user.name “Your Name”**, **git config –-global user.email "youremail@mailsite.com"**, **git config --global color.ui auto**
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42949313/87632742-995a1800-c6ff-11ea-9ad0-5d9f70ac2f8b.png)
7. Check Git Configurations using the command -------------> **git config --list**
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42949313/87867373-dc132e80-c951-11ea-8539-e7692ed9892a.png)
8. Edit configuration file manually using the command ------> **vi ~/.gitconfig**
9. Clone the existing repository using the command ---------> **git clone "remote url"**
![git clone](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42949313/87904910-0b46a000-ca25-11ea-9e87-b2731e408c17.PNG)
10. Create a new file to git repository using the command -----> **vi sample.py"**. Adding the sample.py file to the git repository using the command **git add sample.py**
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42949313/87905277-d25afb00-ca25-11ea-98ea-865e86d45680.png)
11. To know the status of git use the command ------------------> **git status**
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42949313/87883523-93995680-c9cd-11ea-95fb-b0352983c190.png)
12. Commit the changes of Git using the command -------------> **git commit -m "Commit Message"** or **git commit "filename" -m "Commit Message"**

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42949313/87905389-0c2c0180-ca26-11ea-82f8-43e9da9c6d72.png)

13. To push changes into repository using the command --------> **git push origin "your branch-name"**
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42949313/87905529-60cf7c80-ca26-11ea-9892-8f96bfc4ffcf.png)

14. To fetch/merge commits using the command -------------------> **git pull**
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42949313/87905707-d50a2000-ca26-11ea-806b-dbb21707bc54.png)

15. To create new branches in the git --------------------------> **git branch branch-name**

16. To find the list of branches -------------------------------> **git branch -a** and to change the branch in git ---------------------> **git checkout branch-name**

17. To merge the changes from the new-branch to the master branch using the command ---------------> **git merge new-branch --no-ff**

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42949313/87986974-7c2c9d00-caa3-11ea-8afb-c63878a5705d.png)


# Created by Harika Naidu.

Commit message:

Add command for new file in README.md

README.md, after:

# GitCentOS:

## Installing the CentOS:

1. Install Oracle Virtual Box
2. Download CentOS 8 iso (image) file
3. Install CentOS in the Oracle Virtual Box.

## Working with Git in CentOS:
 **Note:** All the installations must be done from the root user

1. Update yum using the command ---------------------------> **yum update**
2. Install Development tools using the command ------------> **sudo yum groupinstall "Development Tools"**
3. Install Git using the command --------------------------> **yum git install**
4. Update Git using the command ---------------------------> **yum git update**
5. To find Git Version using the command ------------------> **git --version**
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42949313/87632315-c1954700-c6fe-11ea-808e-d2a6e2e33b1f.png)
6. Configure Git using the command ------------------------> **git config –-global user.name “Your Name”**, **git config –-global user.email "youremail@mailsite.com"**, **git config --global color.ui auto**
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42949313/87632742-995a1800-c6ff-11ea-9ad0-5d9f70ac2f8b.png)
7. Check Git Configurations using the command -------------> **git config --list**
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42949313/87867373-dc132e80-c951-11ea-8539-e7692ed9892a.png)
8. Edit configuration file manually using the command ------> **vi ~/.gitconfig**
9. Clone the existing repository using the command ---------> **git clone "remote url"**
![git clone](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42949313/87904910-0b46a000-ca25-11ea-9e87-b2731e408c17.PNG)
10. Create a new file to git repository using the command -----> **vi sample.py"**. Adding the sample.py file to the git repository using the command **git add sample.py**
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42949313/87905277-d25afb00-ca25-11ea-98ea-865e86d45680.png)
11. To know the status of git use the command ------------------> **git status**
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42949313/87883523-93995680-c9cd-11ea-95fb-b0352983c190.png)
12. Commit the changes of Git using the command -------------> **git commit -m "Commit Message"** or **git commit "filename" -m "Commit Message"**

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42949313/87905389-0c2c0180-ca26-11ea-82f8-43e9da9c6d72.png)

13. To push changes into repository using the command --------> **git push origin "your branch-name"**
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42949313/87905529-60cf7c80-ca26-11ea-9892-8f96bfc4ffcf.png)

14. To fetch/merge commits using the command -------------------> **git pull**
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42949313/87905707-d50a2000-ca26-11ea-806b-dbb21707bc54.png)

15. To add a new file into the repository using the command -------------> **git add "filename"**
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42949313/88485090-0ad46a80-cf39-11ea-93bd-e011ae01b1a2.png)

16. To create new branches in the git --------------------------> **git branch branch-name**

17. To find the list of branches -------------------------------> **git branch -a** and to change the branch in git ---------------------> **git checkout branch-name**

18. To merge the changes from the new-branch to the master branch using the command ---------------> **git merge new-branch --no-ff**

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/42949313/87986974-7c2c9d00-caa3-11ea-8afb-c63878a5705d.png)


# Created by Harika Naidu.
